The Project Gutenberg eBook of The man who wouldn't sign up
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The man who wouldn't sign up


Author: Thomas E. Purdom

Release date: November 4, 2023 [eBook #72029]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: Royal Publications, Inc, 1958

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO WOULDN'T SIGN UP ***




                     the man who wouldn't sign up

                          By THOMAS E. PURDOM

                 _Chances are you'll sympathize deeply
                 with Henry Westing, who merely wanted
                to go on living his own life in his own
               manner. But under the same circumstances,
                   how would you go about doing it?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                        Infinity October 1958.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


All his life people had been trying to get Henry Westing to sign up.
They were all signing up themselves and they wanted everybody else to
sign up too.

In college it had been the fraternities. Mr. Westing hadn't tried to
join one.

"But you've got to belong to something," they said. "Everybody does."

"I don't."

"Sure you do. You're just being rebellious."

"Perhaps."

"Everybody's got to belong. Ask any psychologist."

"Perhaps. I wouldn't know."

After college it had been work. He had lost three jobs in a row for
the same reason.

"We're sorry, Westing, but you just don't seem to fit in with the
group."

"Don't I do my work well?"

"Yes, but you don't seem to _belong_. We like men who consider
themselves part of The Company, not just people who work here."

In the end he had found a job in a large travel agency in the center of
Philadelphia. This is a business in which everyone at least pretends to
be cynical about his work, so Westing was able to keep his position no
matter how he acted. Of course by this time he had learned to keep his
mouth shut.

All around him he watched people signing up. "You've got to have
something bigger than yourself," they said. "You've got to belong."

He watched them do it and went on living his own life. He loved
concerts and books and plays. He loved his friends, who were good
company and whom he saw often. He loved a couple of girls, too, and
hoped that someday he would love one well enough to marry her.

He lived a very happy life and belonged to nothing.

Then one night in January someone knocked on his door. It was a
Saturday and he was just getting dressed to go to the Academy of Music.
He opened the door of his apartment and looked into the hall.

There was a young man standing there. He had black rimmed glasses and a
crew cut. He wore a slim, well-tailored suit.

"Mr. Westing?"

"Yes?"

"I'm from the Organization. We'd like you to join."

"What organization?"

"_The_ Organization. The Organization for people who don't belong to
any organization."

"I'm afraid I'm not interested."

"But you must be. It says here that you don't belong to anything. We're
here to give you a chance to belong."

"What's the purpose of the organization?"

"It gives its members a feeling of belonging to something. Everybody's
joining. You don't want to be left out, do you?"

"Not if I can help it. But I'm afraid you'll have to try somebody else."

"I can't. We never give up."

"I see. Good night, young man."

He tried to close the door. Before he was quite certain what was
happening, the young man had slipped into the apartment.

"I'm going to a concert," Mr. Westing said. "They're playing Brahms'
First. I've never heard it and I've been looking forward to hearing it
ever since I heard his Second. I'd appreciate it if you left."

"But don't you _want_ to belong, Mr. Westing?"

"No."

"Not to anything?"

"No."

The young man shook his head. "But most people are glad to join. We
offer them what they've been looking for all their lives."

"Then go see them." He put on his jacket and adjusted his tie. "Care
for a drink?"

"I don't drink."

"Why not?"

"It interferes with my work. We're out to double the size of the
Organization. I work very hard at it."

"Do you? Why?"

"It gives me a sense of belonging."

Mr. Westing started for the door. "I'm about to leave," he said. "I
think it would be best if you left too."

The young man sighed. "I can see where you're going to be a difficult
case."

"Probably. Will you turn off the light, please?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He met his date and immediately put the incident out of his mind. They
listened to Brahms' First and it was everything Westing had hoped it
would be. Afterwards, when they were sitting in a bar, he told her
about the Organization.

The girl seemed surprised. It was the second time he had taken her out
and she didn't know him very well.

"You ought to belong to something," she said. "Why don't you join?"

"You mean that?"

"Everybody should belong to something. You can't be useless."

"I'm not useless. I make my contribution. More than most people, in
fact."

"But you can't just live for yourself."

"Why not?"

She struggled. "Because you can't," she said.

He took her home when the bar closed at midnight. The conversation was
one he had engaged in with other girls but it still depressed him. He
hopped the subway and went across the river to Camden, New Jersey,
where they are more reasonable about the hours at which bars remain
open.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning he had a hangover. He was just pouring some tomato
juice when someone knocked at his door.

"Just a minute," he said.

He opened the door. A man in a tweed suit stood in the hall. He had a
relaxed, pleasant face and he smoked a pipe.

"Mr. Westing?"

"Yes?"

"I'm Dr. Cooper. May I come in?"

"I didn't ask for a doctor. I could use one but I haven't called one
yet."

"Oh? What's your trouble?"

"Hangover. I had a rugged night."

"Why? What made you do a thing like that?"

He shrugged. "It's hard to say."

"Insecurity," Dr. Cooper said. "Many people try to evade their
insecurities by drinking. Why don't you tell me about it?"

He hesitated. "Well," he said. "It's early."

Dr. Cooper started forward and he automatically stepped back to let him
in.

"Who sent you anyway?" he asked.

"Didn't they tell you I was coming?"

"Didn't who tell me you were coming?"

"The Organization. I'm their head psychologist."

"I should have known."

"You sound annoyed."

"I'm afraid I don't want to join the Organization. Ever."

Dr. Cooper lit his pipe. "I think you should," he said. "It would
relieve you of your insecurities. You obviously need to belong to
something."

"Why?"

"It is a natural need in all human organisms. A man by himself is
incomplete and unsatisfied. He has no outlet for his energies and his
talents."

"I have very little energy and no talent."

"You're being modest. I understand you have a great deal of both."
Cooper looked around the apartment. "Don't you _want_ to belong, Mr.
Westing?"

"No."

"Don't you belong to anything?"

"No."

"You're sure? You were a political canvasser in the last election,
weren't you?"

"Yes, but that was different."

"Didn't it give you a sense of belonging?"

"Yes, but I didn't like it. I felt trapped."

"Then why did you do it?"

"I'm a citizen. I like to keep my accounts even."

"Then you didn't really belong?" the doctor said.

"Not the way you mean."

"This is very interesting. You honestly think you can live without
belonging to anything?"

"Yes."

"Don't you belong to the human race?"

"Yes, and I try to keep my dues up, too. But it's more of a strain than
a pleasure."

Dr. Cooper puffed on his pipe. "I can see you're going to be a real
challenge," he said.

"Thank you. I intend to be."

"I've got some literature outside. I think you should read it."

"You can leave it if you like."

"I will." A few more puffs. The psychologist looked extremely serene.
"You know, you're a very sick man."

"So I've been told."

"Why don't you let me cure you?"

"First you have to convince me I'm sick."

"That's true."

They talked aimlessly for another half-hour. Cooper left, and Westing
looked over the literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

He started to throw it away. Then his conscience twinged. If he was
going to fight this thing, he was going to fight it honestly. He would
meet their techniques of persuasion, not evade them.

He sat down and read all the pamphlets. _The Need to Belong._ _The
Sense of Unity._ Testimonials from members of the Organization who had
found salvation in its ranks. It was all very well done and rather
weakening to a man with a hangover.

He sat for a long time in his apartment, brooding over it. Then he got
up and threw all the literature in the trash.

"They'll have to do better than that," he said.

The next evening, when he got back from work, he found a package in his
mail. It was a long-play, high-fidelity Calypso record. The notice said
it was a Get-Acquainted Gift from the Jamaican Record Society.

After supper he put the record on. When it had been playing for a while
he got up and, as he often did, began to improvise dance steps to the
music. It was great fun and the record was half over before he noticed
the words had been subtly changing.

    "_House built on a rock foundation will not stand, oh no, oh no,_"
    _You must join the Organization, now now, now now...._"

He snapped off the hi-fi. But the chanting went on in his mind. _You
must join the Organization, you must join the Organization...._

He put on his coat and went out for a walk. When he got back he didn't
feel like reading so he turned on the television set. There was a very
serious play on. He settled back to watch it. It was about a young man
who lived all alone in the city and of his groping toward a better life.

"If I could only belong someplace," the young man said to the girl
during the second act. "I've never belonged anywhere."

"Everybody should belong," the girl said.

The young man nodded and groped with his hands. "Or else they'll be
like Henry Westing," he mumbled.

Mr. Westing got up and turned off the set. He rotated it and looked at
the back. There was a little box screwed in one corner.

"Very clever," he said. He tore the box off and went to bed.

He was just falling asleep when the phone rang. He reached for it in
the dark.

"Westing speaking."

"Mr. Westing? This is Miss Beyle from the Organization. We're calling
up to see if there are any questions you may have."

"I'm afraid I don't. I'm trying to sleep."

"So early?"

"I felt like it."

"You must be terribly lonely. Why don't you come down to Headquarters
for cakes and coffee? We're having a good time."

"Miss Beyle, I've done some canvassing myself. You're doing a good job
but you've got the wrong man."

She laughed. It was a very pleasant laugh.

"Thank you, Mr. Westing. You sound like the kind of man we need. We've
got a big job to do and there's a place here for you anytime you want
it."

"Doing what?"

"Recruiting new members."

"Good evening, Miss Beyle. I've always tried to be a gentleman. I'd
better hang up before I forget myself."

He hung up and tried to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day an economist came to see him. The day after it was
a social scientist and the day after that a political scientist.
He listened patiently for a week as they sat in his apartment and
explained the importance of the group to him.

"Man is nothing," they said. "Unless he belongs to a group."

"On the contrary," Mr. Westing said, "the group is nothing unless I
belong to it."

"That's egotism."

"Probably."

But he knew he was weakening. He held out with the stubborn feeling he
was resisting the tides of history. He felt very brave and strong.

There was a one-day lull. He woke up the morning after and heard a
sound truck blasting away in the street one floor below.

HENRY WESTING DOES NOT BELONG HENRY WESTING BELONGS TO NOTHING REFORM
HENRY WESTING REFORM HENRY WESTING....

"Outrageous," he said.

He dressed, had breakfast and started for work. People stood on their
doorsteps and stared at him when he stepped onto the sidewalk. He
smiled pleasantly at the driver of the truck.

"Good morning," he said. "Nice day, isn't it?"

The driver nodded sullenly.

_Very good_, Mr. Westing thought. _You're doing splendidly._

At work he was tired and drawn out. He had trouble concentrating. The
Department Manager commented on it.

"You're not acting like a Company man, Henry."

"I'm a little tired. I had a hard night."

"What was she like?"

"Dismal."

Everything was dismal. The jingles ran through his head endlessly. So
did the slogans and the words from the sound truck. He was beginning to
doubt himself.

Perhaps they were right. Perhaps he _did_ need to belong.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night the sound truck was still there. It circled the block,
advertising the Organization and denouncing Henry Westing.

There were signs on all the houses too. _We Belong to the
Organization_, the signs said. There was a sign on every door except
his.

He went upstairs and made dinner. Then he sat by the window and tried
to think. Down below he could hear the sound truck.

They're getting to you, he thought. A little more and they'll have you
whipped. You'd better do something.

He picked up the phone and dialed.

"Yes?" a voice answered.

"This is Henry Westing."

"Ahh, Mr. Westing. I thought you'd be calling soon."

"You may send your representative over to my apartment this evening.
Tell him to bring everything."

"Application forms?"

"Everything. Whatever you use to close the deal."

"He'll be there at eight."

"I'll be waiting."

At eight o'clock the young man rang his bell. He was burdened down with
equipment.

"Come in," Mr. Westing said.

"Thank you."

"What's all that you're carrying?"

"Educational material. Mind if I set it up?"

"Go right ahead."

He poured himself a brandy and soda and watched. The young man seemed
nervous and strained as he set up a hemispherical device which seemed
to be a projector.

Mr. Westing glanced at a leatherette folder the young man had put aside
while he worked. The folder bore a neatly labelled title: _Prospects_.

His heart skipped a beat.

He made sure the young man was absorbed in his work. Then he carefully
leafed through the book.

"This Marline Harris looks like an interesting case. What's she like?"

"Did I leave that there? I'm sorry, I can't let you look at it."

"Sorry. I didn't know."

The young man took the folder and went back to work.

"Do you have a girl?" Mr. Westing asked.

"Too busy."

"Oh." He sipped his drink. "That Harris girl certainly has been holding
out, hasn't she?"

"She's a tough one. I've been to see her six times. It's funny, too,
because she's so lonely."

"Really?"

"She's too independent. Men don't like her. And she's pretty
nice-looking, too. It's a shame she can't act like a woman."

"Yes, I guess it is."

"There," the young man said. "Now if you'll just sit down there."

"Care for a drink?"

"I don't drink."

"Not even to be sociable?"

"Sociable? Perhaps I should at that."

Mr. Westing poured another brandy and soda. There was a great deal more
brandy than soda.

"You work hard, don't you?" he said.

"We're in the middle of a big drive now. This is a very important job."
The young man took a drink, the kind a man who has always drunk water
takes.

"Yes, I guess it is rather important. Organizing, getting things done.
A very active life."

"That's what I like, activity. I like to _live_, not just sit around."

"Very understandable."

The young man took another drink. His face underwent a subtle change.

"Let me turn the machine on. We'd better get started."

"Did you have dinner yet?"

"I've been too busy."

"Good, good."

"Good?"

"Good that you work so hard. Shows character."

"Thank you. Now if you'll just sit back there, we'll turn the machine
on." The young man seemed to be having trouble focussing his eyes.

Westing lit a good cigar and offered his guest one. "To be sociable,"
he said.

"In that case, all right."

"You should have another brandy to go with it." He handed him one as he
spoke.

The young man took it, gulped it down automatically and turned on the
machine. Westing pulled on his cigar and settled back in his chair. He
made sure there was another drink by the boy's arm.

"Do you know anything about drinking?"

"Why no, I don't."

"Three's the custom. Three drinks and you're friends. You belong."

"Then I guess I better."

The room turned dark. Stars covered the walls. The young man took
another swallow.

"To what do you belong?" a deep voice said. "Of what are you a part?
In all this vast Universe, you alone are nothing. You alone have no
meaning. But you as part of something bigger...."

A sunrise crept along the walls. The coloring was very good and Mr.
Westing enjoyed it immensely.

Next to him he heard a low sound. The young man was singing.

"It's nice to watch the room spin, isn't it?" Mr. Westing asked.

"I was just thinking that. It's beautiful."

"I know. Excuse me a minute."

       *       *       *       *       *

He got up and took the phone into the next room. As soon as he was out
of earshot, he dialed the number he had memorized earlier.

The phone buzzed a few times. "Hello?" a woman answered.

"Is this Miss Marline Harris?"

"Yes, who is this?"

"My name is Henry Westing. There's a man here trying to get me to join
the Organization and I saw your name and your picture in his Prospects
book."

"Oh, are they after you, too?"

"They've been after me for a long time. Your picture looks very
attractive, Miss Harris."

"Thank you."

"Do you like music?"

"Yes, I do."

A few minutes later he tip-toed into the living room. The film was
still playing, the persuasive voice still speaking. Now it was martial
music and there were flags all over, waving, inspiring.

It takes two, Westing thought. Alone they were getting me. But the two
of us together will be stronger.

He bent over the couch. The boy was asleep and dreaming. His face
looked peaceful.

Mr. Westing turned on a record. It was an unexpurgated reading of _The
Arabian Nights_. He placed the speaker close to the boy's ear.

Then he got dressed and went out to meet Marline. He had beaten them
once again. Maybe they'd get him someday, but way down deep he didn't
believe it.




        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO WOULDN'T SIGN UP ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


